# PlatePal
An application for online food delivery.
This food delivery application is a sophisticated ecosystem of microservices, cutting-edge algorithms, and robust infrastructure designed to delivered and enjoyed food. At the core of our application lies microservices architecture. We've modularized services, allowing for flexibility, scalability, and fault tolerance. Each microservice has a specific function, from order processing and payment handling to user recommendations and restaurant management.Our application is designed for scalability, capable of handling peak order volumes without compromising on performance. Load balancing, cloud resources, and containerization ensure a seamless experience for users and restaurant partners.
<H3>Microservices</H3>
<H4>1. User Management Service: </H4> In user Registration allow users to sign up and create an account to use the application and ensure that the user inputs are valid and that the email address or phone number is unique. And sends a verification email to the user's registered email address with a link or code to confirm their email.<br>
<H4>2. Menu Service:</H4> Allows restaurant owners to create, update, and delete menu items. Handles pricing for menu items, including setting base prices and managing variations. Supports detailed descriptions for menu items, including information about ingredients.<>br
<H4>3. Billing Services: </H4>  It Gathers and stores billing information related to customer orders. This information includes details like order total, itemized charges, taxes. And Sends email receipts to customers after successful payments, providing a record of their transaction for their reference.<br>
<H4>4. Payment Service:</H4> This integration allows customers to securely make payments using their preferred methods, including credit/debit cards, digital wallets, or even cash on delivery. Ensures that payment transactions are secure. <br>
<H4>5. Feedback and Rating Service: </H4>  It enables users of the platform to share their feedback and experiences regarding restaurants and specific dishes they have ordered. 
<H4>6. Order Management Services: </H4> Sends a confirmation notification with an order ID to the user for reference. Offers real-time tracking from order preparation to delivery or pickup. Provides a delivery route map for delivery orders to keep users informed about their order's progress. Provides order receipts and invoices for users' records and future reference.<br>
